README.md, before:

# CS180SocialMedia

CS180SocialMedia is a Java-based backend simulation for a simple social media platform. The platform is a digital wall-writing app, essentially users will be able to join classes they are currently enrolled in and view posts that previous students have made. Plase 1 contains for basic user management, posting, and commenting, with data persistence through the use of a file storing system. This project is built with Maven and includes Java classes for users, posts, comments, and images.

**Class**: CS 180  
**Group Names**:

- Shrey Agarwal
- Christian Slade
- Zayan Niaz
- Ates Isfendiyaroglu
- Mahit Mehta

## Table of Contents

- [Features](#features)
- [Project Structure](#project-structure)
- [Setup](#setup)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Classes] (#classes)
- [Data Storage](#data-storage)
- [Testing](#testing)

---

## Features

- **User Management**: Create, update, retrieve, and delete user profiles.
- **Posts and Comments**: Users can create posts and add comments to interact with one another.
- **Image Collection**: Placeholder for image management, where users or posts may have associated images.
- **File-based Storage**: Data is stored in text files (`users.txt`, `posts.txt`, and `comments.txt`) for persistence.

---

## Project Structure

The main components of the project include:

- **App.java**: The main entry point of the application, initializing and running the backend simulation.
- **Database.java**: Manages reading from and writing to files, acting as a simple file-based database.
- **User, Post, and Comment Classes**: Define the entities in the system, with `UserCollection`, `PostCollection`, and `CommentCollection` managing collections of these entities.
- **ImageCollection.java**: Handles image data, if implemented for users or posts.

---

### Directory Layout

```plaintext
CS180SocialMedia/
├── README.md
├── .gitignore
├── eclipse-formatter.xml
├── SocialMediaServer/
│   ├── pom.xml                 # Maven configuration file
│   └── src/
│       ├── main/
│       │   └── java/com/cs180/
│       │       ├── App.java    # Main application entry point
│       │       ├── db/         # Database and collection classes
│       │           ├── User.java
│       │           ├── UserCollection.java
│       │           ├── Post.java
│       │           ├── PostCollection.java
│       │           ├── Comment.java
│       │           ├── CommentCollection.java
│       │           ├── ImageCollection.java
│       │           └── Database.java
│       └── test/
│           └── java/com/cs180/
│               └── AppTest.java  # Unit tests for core functionality
└── Data Files
    ├── users.txt               # Stores user data
    ├── posts.txt               # Stores post data
    └── comments.txt            # Stores comment data
```

---

## Setup

### Prerequisites

- **Java**: JDK 8 or higher
- **Maven**: For dependency management and building

---

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/ShreyAgarwal71/CS180SocialMedia.git
   cd CS180SocialMedia/SocialMediaServer
   ```
2. Build the project with Maven:
   ```bash
   mvn clean install
   ```

---

## Classes

- **User**: This class represents a user object that can be added to a user collection. A user has a username, password, display name, and email. The class defines all respective getter and setter methods, equals methods and a toString.
- **Post**: This class represents a post object that can be added to a feed. A post has a message, a user, a date, a postID, and votes. The class defines all respective getter and setter methods, equals methods and a toString.
- **Comment**: This class represents a comment object that can be added to a post or another comment. A comment contains a message, a user, a date, a commentID, votes, and comments. The class defines all respective getter and setter methods, equals methods and a toString.
- **BaseCollection**: This class is the base class for all the collections in the database. It provides the basic functionality for adding, updating, removing, and finding elements in the collection.
- **Collection**: A Collection interface to help manage our program's database collections. This interface provides methods to read and write data to and from the disk, add, update, and remove elements from the collection, and find elements in the collection that match a given predicate.
- **UserCollection**: A Collection class to manage users in the database of our program. This class is responsible for reading and writing user data to and from the disk. It also provides methods to find users by their username.
- **PostCollection**: A Collection class to manage posts in the database. This class is responsible for reading and writing post data to and from the disk. It also provides methods to find posts by their postID.
- **CommentCollection**: A Collection class to manage comments in the database. This class is responsible for reading and writing comment data to and from the disk. It also provides methods to find comments by their postID.
- **Database**: A Database class to manage the Collection singletons in the database. This class is responsible for reading and writing user, post, and comment data to and from the disk. It also provides methods to get the UserCollection, the PostCollection, and the CommentCollection. The Database class is a singleton class.
- **RwLockArrayList**: A thread-safe ArrayList that uses a ReadWriteLock to manage access to the list. This class is used to store data in the database. It provides methods to add, remove, and get elements from the list. It also provides methods to lock and unlock the read and write locks. This class is used by the database to store user, post, and comment data. This class is a generic class. The type of the elements in the list is specified by the type parameter T.

---

## Usage

1. Run the application:
   ```bash
   mvn exec:java -Dexec.mainClass="com.cs180.App"
   ```
2. Interact with the program to create, view, and manage users, posts, and comments. The application saves data to text files for persistence.

---

## Data Storage

The program stores data in three text files:

- **users.txt**: Holds user data (e.g., usernames, passwords, and profiles).
- **posts.txt**: Contains post details, including content, author, and timestamps.
- **comments.txt**: Holds comment data associated with specific posts.

These files are read and updated through the `Database.java` class, ensuring data is saved across application sessions.

---

## Testing

To run unit tests for this project:

```bash
mvn test
```

Tests are located in the `AppTest.java` file within the `test` directory, this covers the main functionalities of user and post management.

---

Commit message:

template for classes testing in readme

README.md, after:

# CS180SocialMedia

CS180SocialMedia is a Java-based backend simulation for a simple social media platform. The platform is a digital wall-writing app, essentially users will be able to join classes they are currently enrolled in and view posts that previous students have made. Plase 1 contains for basic user management, posting, and commenting, with data persistence through the use of a file storing system. This project is built with Maven and includes Java classes for users, posts, comments, and images.

**Class**: CS 180  
**Group Names**:

- Shrey Agarwal
- Christian Slade
- Zayan Niaz
- Ates Isfendiyaroglu
- Mahit Mehta

## Table of Contents

- [Features](#features)
- [Project Structure](#project-structure)
- [Setup](#setup)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Classes] (#classes)
- [Data Storage](#data-storage)
- [Testing](#testing)

---

## Features

- **User Management**: Create, update, retrieve, and delete user profiles.
- **Posts and Comments**: Users can create posts and add comments to interact with one another.
- **Image Collection**: Placeholder for image management, where users or posts may have associated images.
- **File-based Storage**: Data is stored in text files (`users.txt`, `posts.txt`, and `comments.txt`) for persistence.

---

## Project Structure

The main components of the project include:

- **App.java**: The main entry point of the application, initializing and running the backend simulation.
- **Database.java**: Manages reading from and writing to files, acting as a simple file-based database.
- **User, Post, and Comment Classes**: Define the entities in the system, with `UserCollection`, `PostCollection`, and `CommentCollection` managing collections of these entities.
- **ImageCollection.java**: Handles image data, if implemented for users or posts.

---

### Directory Layout

```plaintext
CS180SocialMedia/
├── README.md
├── .gitignore
├── eclipse-formatter.xml
├── SocialMediaServer/
│   ├── pom.xml                 # Maven configuration file
│   └── src/
│       ├── main/
│       │   └── java/com/cs180/
│       │       ├── App.java    # Main application entry point
│       │       ├── db/         # Database and collection classes
│       │           ├── User.java
│       │           ├── UserCollection.java
│       │           ├── Post.java
│       │           ├── PostCollection.java
│       │           ├── Comment.java
│       │           ├── CommentCollection.java
│       │           ├── ImageCollection.java
│       │           └── Database.java
│       └── test/
│           └── java/com/cs180/
│               └── AppTest.java  # Unit tests for core functionality
└── Data Files
    ├── users.txt               # Stores user data
    ├── posts.txt               # Stores post data
    └── comments.txt            # Stores comment data
```

---

## Setup

### Prerequisites

- **Java**: JDK 8 or higher
- **Maven**: For dependency management and building

---

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/ShreyAgarwal71/CS180SocialMedia.git
   cd CS180SocialMedia/SocialMediaServer
   ```
2. Build the project with Maven:
   ```bash
   mvn clean install
   ```

---

## Classes

- **User**: This class represents a user object that can be added to a user collection. A user has a username, password, display name, and email. The class defines all respective getter and setter methods, equals methods and a toString.
- **Post**: This class represents a post object that can be added to a feed. A post has a message, a user, a date, a postID, and votes. The class defines all respective getter and setter methods, equals methods and a toString.
- **Comment**: This class represents a comment object that can be added to a post or another comment. A comment contains a message, a user, a date, a commentID, votes, and comments. The class defines all respective getter and setter methods, equals methods and a toString.
- **BaseCollection**: This class is the base class for all the collections in the database. It provides the basic functionality for adding, updating, removing, and finding elements in the collection.
- **Collection**: A Collection interface to help manage our program's database collections. This interface provides methods to read and write data to and from the disk, add, update, and remove elements from the collection, and find elements in the collection that match a given predicate.
- **UserCollection**: A Collection class to manage users in the database of our program. This class is responsible for reading and writing user data to and from the disk. It also provides methods to find users by their username.
- **PostCollection**: A Collection class to manage posts in the database. This class is responsible for reading and writing post data to and from the disk. It also provides methods to find posts by their postID.
- **CommentCollection**: A Collection class to manage comments in the database. This class is responsible for reading and writing comment data to and from the disk. It also provides methods to find comments by their postID.
- **Database**: A Database class to manage the Collection singletons in the database. This class is responsible for reading and writing user, post, and comment data to and from the disk. It also provides methods to get the UserCollection, the PostCollection, and the CommentCollection. The Database class is a singleton class.
- **RwLockArrayList**: A thread-safe ArrayList that uses a ReadWriteLock to manage access to the list. This class is used to store data in the database. It provides methods to add, remove, and get elements from the list. It also provides methods to lock and unlock the read and write locks. This class is used by the database to store user, post, and comment data. This class is a generic class. The type of the elements in the list is specified by the type parameter T.

---

## Class Testing

- **User**:
  Test 1: Removing user test
  Test 2:
- **Post**: This class represents a post object that can be added to a feed. A post has a message, a user, a date, a postID, and votes. The class defines all respective getter and setter methods, equals methods and a toString.
- **Comment**: This class represents a comment object that can be added to a post or another comment. A comment contains a message, a user, a date, a commentID, votes, and comments. The class defines all respective getter and setter methods, equals methods and a toString.
- **BaseCollection**: This class is the base class for all the collections in the database. It provides the basic functionality for adding, updating, removing, and finding elements in the collection.
- **Collection**: A Collection interface to help manage our program's database collections. This interface provides methods to read and write data to and from the disk, add, update, and remove elements from the collection, and find elements in the collection that match a given predicate.
- **UserCollection**: A Collection class to manage users in the database of our program. This class is responsible for reading and writing user data to and from the disk. It also provides methods to find users by their username.
- **PostCollection**: A Collection class to manage posts in the database. This class is responsible for reading and writing post data to and from the disk. It also provides methods to find posts by their postID.
- **CommentCollection**: A Collection class to manage comments in the database. This class is responsible for reading and writing comment data to and from the disk. It also provides methods to find comments by their postID.
- **Database**: A Database class to manage the Collection singletons in the database. This class is responsible for reading and writing user, post, and comment data to and from the disk. It also provides methods to get the UserCollection, the PostCollection, and the CommentCollection. The Database class is a singleton class.
- **RwLockArrayList**: A thread-safe ArrayList that uses a ReadWriteLock to manage access to the list. This class is used to store data in the database. It provides methods to add, remove, and get elements from the list. It also provides methods to lock and unlock the read and write locks. This class is used by the database to store user, post, and comment data. This class is a generic class. The type of the elements in the list is specified by the type parameter T.

---

## Usage

1. Run the application:
   ```bash
   mvn exec:java -Dexec.mainClass="com.cs180.App"
   ```
2. Interact with the program to create, view, and manage users, posts, and comments. The application saves data to text files for persistence.

---

## Data Storage

The program stores data in three text files:

- **users.txt**: Holds user data (e.g., usernames, passwords, and profiles).
- **posts.txt**: Contains post details, including content, author, and timestamps.
- **comments.txt**: Holds comment data associated with specific posts.

These files are read and updated through the `Database.java` class, ensuring data is saved across application sessions.

---

## Testing

To run unit tests for this project:

```bash
mvn test
```

Tests are located in the `AppTest.java` file within the `test` directory, this covers the main functionalities of user and post management.

---
